# Facial-Recognition-Automation-System-Using-Machine-Learning-Algorithms
Facial Recognition Attendance System
The first crucial identity of human beings is through an individual’s face in our evolving technical era. An individual can be distinguished with different facial-features. Biometrics has been explored and has given scope to a lot of recognitions technique. Finger-print recognizer, card-scan methods ,etc are few examples to it. Biometrics work on capturing and storing the physical and behavioral traits and using that knowledge for the operation of tracking.  However the techniques involving fingerprint scan or card scanning system has been failed to prevent frauds and forgery to a large number of extent. Cases of fake finger-print moulds and other frauds methods arouse the need of new technique. Employers sometimes scan each other card in the card-scan system. The failures of these methodology gave rise to the facial recognition model. This methodology results in less frauds and forgery. This methodology came into knowledge around 60s and since then has been revolutionized with different algorithms. The upgrade in knowledge and biometrics gave rise to different terminologies and algorithms which have been better than the previous. The algorithm used by us is Histogram Orient of Gradients. HOG along with effective Machine Learning approach boasts the previously occurring methodology to become more robust. It improves the efficiency of feature-detection technique. The proposed method accumulates the information with the input face image and corresponding name and roll number; hereafter once the information is stored the face would be recognized and accordingly attendance would be updated. Unknown input would not recognized and would be alarmed with alarm. The unknown intervention can be mapped on excel file. Excel folder contains the attendance of the student.  The whole automation of Facial Recognition is carried out with a user-friendly and effective architecture and robust Machine Learning approach. 
